# Onco-fetal reprogramming of endothelial cells drives immunosuppressive macrophages in Hepatocellular Carcinoma
 We employed scRNA sequencing to extensively characterize the cellular landscape of human liver from development to disease. We analyzed 212,000 cells representing human fetal, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and mouse liver and revealed remarkable fetal-like reprogramming of tumor microenvironment. Spe- cifically, the HCC ecosystem displayed features reminiscent of fetal development, including re-emergence of fetal-associated endothelial cells (PLVAP/VEGFR2) and fetal-like (FOLR2) tumor-associated macrophages. In a cross-species comparative analysis, we discovered remarkable similarity between mouse embryonic, fetal-liver, and tumor macrophages. Spatial transcriptomics further revealed a shared onco-fetal ecosystem between fetal liver and HCC. Furthermore, gene regulatory analysis, spatial transcriptomics, and in vitro func- tional assays identified the implication of VEGF and NOTCH signaling in maintaining onco-fetal ecosystem. Taken together, we report a shared immunosuppressive onco-fetal ecosystem in fetal liver and HCC. Our re- sults unravel a previously unexplored onco-fetal reprogramming of tumor ecosystem, provide a novel target for therapeutic interventions in HCC, and open up avenues for identifying similar paradigms in other cancer and disease.
 
## Citation Sharma et al., Onco-fetal Reprogramming of Endothelial Cells Drives Immunosuppressive Macrophages in Hepatocellular  Carcinoma,  Cell  (2020),  https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2020.08.040

